Abstract
Technological advancement has opened the door to systematic genetics in mammalian cells. Genome-scale loss-of-function screens can assay fitness defects induced by partial gene knockdown, using RNA interference, or complete gene knockout, using new CRISPR techniques. These screens can reveal the basic blueprint required for cellular proliferation. Moreover, comparing healthy to cancerous tissue can uncover genes that are essential only in the tumor; these genes are targets for the development of specific anticancer therapies. Unfortunately, progress in this field has been hampered by off-target effects of perturbation reagents and poorly quantified error rates in large-scale screens. To improve the quality of information derived from these screens, and to provide a framework for understanding the capabilities and limitations of CRISPR technology, we derive gold-standard reference sets of essential and nonessential genes, and provide a Bayesian classifier of gene essentiality that outperforms current methods on both RNAi and CRISPR screens. Our results indicate that CRISPR technology is more sensitive than RNAi and that both techniques have nontrivial false discovery rates that can be mitigated by rigorous analytical methods.
Keywords: cancer, CRISPR, essential genes, RNAi, shRNA
Introduction
In the early 1900s, Lucien Cuénot observed unusual patterns of inheritance when studying
coat color in mice and, from his many crosses, never produced a single homozygous yellow mouse
(Cuenot,
[1905](#b9); Paigen, [2003](#b35)). Not long after these observations, it was shown that Cuenot's crosses resulted
in what appeared to be non-Mendelian ratios because he had discovered a lethal gene (Castle &
Little, [1910](#b5)). W.E. Castle and C.C. Little demonstrated that
one-quarter of the offspring from Cuénot's crosses between heterozygotes died during
embryonic development, ushering in embryonic lethality, or death, as a new phenotypic class for
geneticists (Castle & Little, [1910](#b5)). Consequently, the
idea that organisms harbor sets of lethal or essential genes has taken shape over the past century.
In the past dozen years or so, systematic genomic studies in eukaryotic model systems have defined
sets of lethal or essential genes under defined growth conditions, providing a nexus for biologists
to study the essential molecular processes that occur during cell growth and proliferation.
The importance of defining essential genes is threefold. First, it provides a blueprint for all
components necessary for a cell to grow and divide under defined conditions. Second, it provides a
parts list that can be deconstructed to uncover all the necessary cellular and molecular functions
that proceed during cell growth and division under defined experimental conditions. Third, the list
of essential genes and related functions provides a reference point for understanding disease.
Indeed, the accurate identification of human disease genes is among the most important goals of
biomedical research, and there exists a complex relationship between disease genes and essential
genes, particularly for cancer genomes. For example, a recent analysis has shown that the cumulative
effects of copy number variants of cancer drivers and essential genes along a chromosome explain the
recurring patterns of somatic copy number alterations of whole chromosomes and chromosome arms in
cancer genomes (Davoli et al,
[2013](#b10)).
Broadly speaking, a gene is defined as essential if its complete loss of function results in a
complete loss of fitness. In single-celled organisms, this is a fairly straightforward assessment;
however, in metazoans, a gene could be reasonably classified as essential if its loss of function
resulted in sterility or failure to develop to adulthood. In practice, a prenatal lethal phenotype
is typically the criterion for essentiality. Given the absence of a set of well-established human
essential genes, researchers have generally relied on orthology to infer essentiality. Lethal or
essential gene sets have been generated under defined growth conditions for a number of eukaryotic
model systems including the budding yeast S. cerevisiae (Winzeler et
al,
[1999](#b51); Giaever et al, [2002](#b14)), the fission yeast S. pombe (Kim et
al, [2010](#b25)), C. elegans (Kamath
et al, [2003](#b24)), D.
melanogaster (Boutros et al, [2004](#b2);
Dietzl et al, [2007](#b12)), M.
musculus (White et al, [2013](#b50)) and
others. Across model organisms, essential genes are more likely to be hubs in protein-protein
interaction networks (Jeong et al, [2001](#b22)), a
phenomenon driven to some degree by membership in large essential protein complexes (Hart et
al, [2007](#b17); Zotenko et al, [2008](#b52)). Moreover, model organism essentials are less likely to have
paralogs (Makino et al, [2009](#b30)), consistent
with the model of gene duplication buffering loss-of-function phenotypes (Gu et al,
[2003](#b15)). Human orthologs of mouse knockouts which give rise to
developmental lethal phenotypes are themselves enriched for developmental disease genes, even above
the bias toward developmental genes in the mouse knockout set (Makino et al, [2009](#b30)). Furthermore, ubiquitously expressed human genes are very
likely to contain a large proportion of essential genes and are different in their evolutionary
conservation rates (i.e. higher nonsynonomous/synonomous substitution rates), DNA coding lengths,
and gene functions compared with disease genes and other genes (Tu et al, [2006](#b46)).
Experimental assays of human gene essentiality are performed in cell lines. RNA interference has,
to-date, been the weapon of choice for genome-scale fitness screening, with roughly two hundred
published cell line screens (Luo et al,
[2008](#b28); Schlabach et al, [2008](#b37); Silva
et al, [2008](#b42); Cheung et al,
[2011](#b7); Marcotte et al, [2012](#b32)). Other approaches include gene traps in haploid human cells (Carette
et al, [2009](#b4); Burckstummer et
al, [2013](#b3)) and, more recently, genome-scale gene
editing approaches using lentiviral-based CRISPR technologies (Shalem et al, [2013](#b39); Wang et al, [2013](#b48)). The RNAi screens to-date have typically been conducted in cancer cell lines or normal
counterparts to elucidate not only which genes are essential, but also which genes are
differentially essential in different contexts, with the ultimate goal of identifying genes or
pathways that are tissue-, subtype-, or even tumor-specific (i.e. genotype- or context-dependent
essential or lethal genes). With the widespread adoption of pooled library shRNA screens has come
the understanding that there are caveats to this type of genetic screening approach. In particular,
off-target effects can lead to false positives (Echeverri et al, [2006](#b13); Moffat et al, [2007](#b33)), if the unintended target of an shRNA hairpin is an essential gene. To
mitigate these effects, analytical approaches have been developed that look for phenotypic
consistency across multiple hairpins targeting a gene (Luo et al, [2008](#b28); Cheung et al, [2011](#b7); Marcotte et al, [2012](#b32)) and
among the same hairpins in different screens (Shao et al, [2013](#b41)). Not surprisingly, different approaches can yield different results, and the
degree to which false positives contaminate results is largely unknown (Kaelin, [2012](#b23)).
No method currently exists to systematically evaluate these various approaches. Studies in other
areas of functional genomics have relied on ‘gold-standard’ positive and negative
reference sets (Jansen & Gerstein,
[2004](#b21)) to evaluate
the sensitivity and specificity of, for example, protein-protein interactions (Hart et
al, [2006](#b16); Havugimana et al, [2012](#b19)). This approach applies equally well to gene essentiality
studies, where negatives can outnumber positives by an order of magnitude. However, no such gold
standards currently exist for screens using mammalian, and more specifically human, cell lines. The
developmental essentials inferred by orthology contain many genes which are, by definition,
essential for whole-organism development but unlikely to be essential in any given cell line
context. To our knowledge, no putative cell line nonessential reference set exists at all, though it
is certainly an impossible task to prove that any gene is nonessential in all contexts.
In this study, we derive gold-standard reference sets of human cell line essential and
nonessential genes. We use them to train a Bayesian classifier of gene essentiality in pooled
library shRNA screens and, most importantly, to evaluate the error rates of individual screens. We
demonstrate how to leverage this framework to evaluate the data quality of genome-scale fitness
screens in human cell lines as well as the effectiveness of the analytical approaches applied to
them. In addition, we develop models of gene essentiality that permit estimation of the number of
core essential genes and total number of essential genes. Our method is applicable to new pooled
screening methodologies such as gene traps with haploid cell lines (Carette et al,
[2009](#b4)) or genome-scale pooled CRISPR approaches (Shalem
et al, [2013](#b39); Wang et al,
[2013](#b48)). The reference sets can be used to evaluate screen
quality regardless of what analytical method is applied.
Results
Computational framework for predicting essential genes from reverse genetic screens
Genetic screens in mammalian cells using pooled barcoding approaches have emerged as a powerful
method for functional discovery. In particular, negative genetic selections have the potential to
reveal entire genetic pathways that govern cell growth and proliferation (i.e. essential/lethal
factors). In order to advance our ability to analyze and assess the quality of systematic genetic
screens that are emerging, we developed an informatics approach that is applicable to any
genome-scale genetic screen or set of screens for predicting essential/lethal factors. Using a
compendium of shRNA screens across different human cancer cell lines (Marcotte et
al,
[2012](#b32)), we developed a Bayesian classifier to
score essential/lethal factors. As cells harboring shRNA hairpins targeting essential/lethal factors
drop out of a proliferating population, the corresponding shRNAs show strong negative fold-change
relative to controls. The data for each cell line are comprised of microarray data for up to three
replicates at an initial timepoint (T0) and each of two experimental timepoints, and we calculated
fold-change for each observation relative to the mean of the control microarrays, resulting in a
matrix of fold-changes for ∼78,000 hairpins across nearly 400 cell lines/timepoints. The
Bayesian classifier was developed to evaluate whether the distribution of fold-changes for hairpins
targeting a given gene most closely matched the distribution of fold-changes of hairpins targeting
training sets of essential genes or nonessential genes using twofold cross-validation to prevent
circularity (Fig [1](#fig01)). The classifier was trained on reference
sets we generated, and each screen's performance was evaluated against a withheld test set
(Fig [1](#fig01)).
Source of reference essential genes (EGs)
An effective reference set of EGs should include all genes that are essential across every cell
line or context in which they have been studied. We used a linear algebra approach to find genes
that were consistently essential across cell line screens previously performed in our laboratory
(Marcotte et al,
[2012](#b32)). Singular value
decomposition (SVD) is a matrix factorization technique that yields a set of orthogonal basis
vectors that describe, in rank order, the major sources of variation in the data. Briefly, SVD was
applied to half of the shRNA fold-change matrix, yielding one dominant left singular vector (LSV)
that describes ∼42% of the total variance in the matrix (Supplementary Fig S1A). The
distribution of all shRNA projections onto this first LSV is shown in Supplementary Fig S1B. shRNAs
with strong positive projections show consistent dropout across effective shRNA screens, which had
strong negative projections onto the corresponding right singular vector (Supplementary Fig S1C),
projections which correlated with the number of cell doublings at which each sample was measured
(Supplementary Fig S1D). For each gene, we found the median projection onto the first LSV of its
cognate hairpins and measured whether hairpins with median rank or higher rank were enriched in the
right tail by a hypergeometric test, yielding 179 genes at a false discovery rate (FDR) of
25% (Benjamini & Hochberg). This list was further filtered to 148 constitutively and
invariantly expressed genes, that is, genes with mean log2(FPKM) > 0 across both
the ENCODE [17 cell lines (Tilgner et al, [2012](#b45))] and Illumina BodyMap (16 tissues, EBI accession no. E-MTAB-513) RNA-seq
datasets, and standard deviation of log2(FPKM) less than the mean standard deviation of
all observed protein-coding genes in each dataset (Supplementary Fig S2).
Source of reference nonessential genes (NEGs)
Defining a reference set of nonessential genes is less clear cut, as it is impossible to
experimentally demonstrate nonessentiality in all contexts. However, we reasoned that genes that are
not expressed in the majority of tissues and cell lines are reasonable candidates for such a
reference set. To generate this set, we again turned to published RNA-seq data. We selected
protein-coding genes that are probed by our shRNA library and have an expression level of less than
0.1 FPKM in 15 of 16 BodyMap tissues and 16 of 17 ENCODE cell lines, as genes expressed below this
level are typically not biologically relevant (Hebenstreit et al,
[2011](#b20); Hart et al, [2013](#b18)). We label the resulting set of 927 putatively nonessential genes the
NEG set. While this set may include some genes that are essential in other cellular
or organismal contexts, the net effect of a small number of ‘accidental essentials’ in
this set should be negligible. The seed and reference nonessential genes are listed in Supplementary
Dataset S1.
Bayes Factor scores
Reference essentials and nonessentials were divided into equal-sized training and testing sets for subsequent analyses, and each cell line in the withheld half of the shRNA fold-change matrix was analyzed independently. For each timepoint, the fold-change distributions for the essential and nonessential training sets, comprising 347 and 2,268 hairpins respectively, were determined. Then, for each gene, a Bayes Factor (BF) was calculated, representing the log likelihood that the observed fold-change for a given gene's cognate hairpins was drawn from either the essential or the nonessential reference distribution. Log BFs were summed across all time points for a final BF for each gene in each cell line. Supplementary Dataset S2 contains a table of all calculated Bayes Factors.
F-measure
For each cell line, genes were rank-ordered by BF and compared to the withheld reference test
sets to evaluate precision vs. recall. Screen quality varied widely, with most screens showing
moderate to high performance, though several outliers showed remarkably poor results (Fig
[2](#fig02)A). We identified the point on the recall-precision curve for
each screen where the BF crossed zero and calculated the F-measure (harmonic mean
of recall & precision) of each screen at that point. We judged screens with
F-measure ≥ 0.75 (n = 48/68; Fig [2](#fig02)B) to be high-performing screens and retained them for downstream analyses.
Screen performance measures are listed in [Supplementary Dataset S3](#SD3).
Core essentials
Within this set of high-performing screens, we examined the frequency with which each gene was
called essential (BF > 0) (Fig
[2](#fig02)C). Though 4,451 genes
have a positive BF in at least one cell line, genes observed in few (1–4) screens are
enriched for false positives. Repeated observation greatly improves the likelihood that a gene is
truly essential. To identify likely global essential genes, and to avoid identifying cancer
tissue/subtype-specific genes, we selected genes observed in at least half of the performing screens
(n = 291 genes). We label these core essentials.
Cumulative analysis of EGs
To identify the set of all EGs observed across all screens, we used a cumulative analysis
approach. Most large-scale functional genomics screens try to differentiate a small number of true
‘hits’ from a pool of negatives that can often be orders of magnitude larger (Jansen
& Gerstein,
[2004](#b21)). In such screens, even a tiny false
positive rate applied across all true negatives can result in large FDRs for individual screens.
Researchers can attenuate the final FDR by conducting multiple repeats of screens and analyzing
the frequency with which each hit is observed across repeats. By considering the cumulative
distribution of hits across multiple screens, information about both the total number of true
essentials in the population and the error rate in observing those hits can be calculated. In
principle, a screen with zero FDR that is repeated to saturation will yield a cumulative
observations curve that flattens to a slope of zero at the total number of hits in the screened
population. In practice, repeated screens can saturate the true hits, but random discovery of false
positives yields a cumulative curve with positive slope as more and more false positives are
accumulated. A variation of this cumulative observation analysis was used to evaluate the saturation
of protein-protein interaction screens (Hart et al,
[2006](#b16)).
To test this logic, we rank-ordered the top-performing 36 cell line screens in our compendium of
pooled shRNA screens by F-measure and plotted the cumulative number of observed
essential genes. The result is indeed a curve that flattens but with a positive slope (Fig
[3](#fig03)A). To estimate both the number of essential genes and the
average screen error rate, we conducted in silico simulations of the 36 screens,
determined the synthetic cumulative observation curve for each set of simulations, and measured the
curve's fit to our experimental observations. With fixed parameters of 15,687 genes assayed
and 606 genes reported as essential in each screen (the mean number of genes in the top 36 screens
with BF > 0), we find that a model with a cellular population of 1,025 essential genes and an
average screen FDR of 15% yields a cumulative essentials curve that mimics the observed curve
very closely (Fig [3](#fig03)A). Running the model across a range of
total essential population sizes and FDRs and calculating root-mean-squared deviation (RMSD) from
the observed cumulative essentials curve show models with 850–1,175 essential genes, and FDRs
of 14.0–16.5% yield an RMSD that is less than 1.5× the minimum RMSD (Fig [3](#fig03)B). Notably, the FDR range for the best fit models is highly
consistent with the average empirically measured FDR of 13.8% across the top 36 screens.
Moreover, while the top screens encompass several cancer subtypes from three tissues of origin, the
model treats all 36 repeats as replicates. Tissue- or subtype-specific essential genes in the
saturated region will be incorrectly treated as false positives using the cumulative approach;
therefore, FDR estimates derived in this manner are likely conservative.
Though the modeling approach can tell us approximately how many essential genes are in our cell
lines in toto, it does not identify which genes are truly essential. To separate
essential genes from false positives, we rely on repeat observations of essential genes across
multiple screens. Fig.
[3](#fig03)C shows a histogram of gene
essentiality calls across the top 12 screens. Of the 2,130 unique hits in these screens, 945
(44%) are observed in a single screen, while only 392 (18%) are seen in six or more of
the 12 cell lines.
To estimate the binwise FDR for this distribution, we again turn to the cumulative approach.
Fig
[3](#fig03)C also shows the distribution of essential gene calls in
the 13th–24th ranked screens (blue) and the 25th–36th ranked screens (red). If we
assume that the first 12 screens have achieved saturation—a likely false assumption but a
useful approximation for modeling—then all subsequent hits must be false positives. The
second and third sets of 12 screens therefore model the frequency distribution of false positives
and give an estimate of the expected number of false positives in each bin. Based on these
estimates, we conclude that hits in 3 or more of the top 12 screens are essential genes with an FDR
of 6–11%. This set comprises 823 genes, which we label total
essentials (see [Supplementary Dataset
S4](#SD4) for a complete list), and contains all 291 core essentials.
Given the diversity of tissues and subtypes in the cell lines studied, it is highly unlikely that all observations beyond the top 12 screens are false positives. Some fraction of subsequent hits may in fact be true subtype-specific essential genes. For example, the top 12 cell lines include five pancreatic, three ovarian and four breast cancer cell lines, of which three are basal subtype and one, HCC-1954, is EGFR-high/Her2 amplified. Well-studied subtype-specific breast cancer oncogenes CDK4 and FOXA1 are not classified as essential in any of the top 12 screens, including HCC-1954, though this line does show a dependence on Her2/ERBB2 (BF = 9.21). However, across all 48 performing screens, CDK4 and FOXA1 each show BF > 20 in 4 cell lines; two of the four CDK4 lines and three of the four FOXA1 lines are HER2+ breast cancer lines, and the remainder are all luminal subtype. The net effect of these subtype-specific essentials in the analysis of cumulative observations is to artificially inflate the imputed number of false positives in each bin, thus rendering our FDR estimates conservative.
Characteristics of EGs
Core essential genes are expected to be essential in all cell lines and contexts and must be
constitutively expressed. Indeed, 217 of 291 core essentials (74.6%), as well as 483 of 823
total essentials (58.7%), showed high mean expression with low variation across a compendium
of RNA-seq experiments (Supplementary Fig S2), compared to 33.4% of other genes. These genes
are also highly enriched for protein complexes; more than half of the set of total essentials encode
subunits of annotated human protein complexes. Fig
[4](#fig04)A shows
the top nonoverlapping (i.e. minimal shared subunits) protein complexes that show strong enrichment
for essential genes (comprising 231 genes), with most subunits detected as core essentials and
coverage increased by the set of total essentials (see [Supplementary Dataset S5](#SD5) for a complete list). These complexes represent the
fundamental molecular functions of cellular life: transcription, translation, and replication. An
additional 235 essential genes are also annotated as subunits of protein complexes, though the
complexes do not meet our threshold for statistical significance. The remaining 357 essential genes
not in any annotated protein complex also show enrichment for core cellular processes, including
ribosome biogenesis (13 genes, 5.6-fold enrichment, P = 3.6e-6),
aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (4 genes, 6.1-fold, P = 2.8e-2), and protein
tyrosine phosphatases (8 genes, 4.3-fold, P = 2.7e-3). Essential genes not
in complexes are generally not constitutively expressed; 117 of the 357 (32.8%) show
constitutive and invariant expression compared to 33.4% of nonessentials, suggesting this may
be a rich source of tissue-specific essentials.
Essential genes were divided into the categories described above (i.e. in enriched complexes, in
other complexes, not in any complex; Fig
[4](#fig04)B) to examine the
fraction of genes in each of these categories that overlap/intersect with mouse essential genes or
represent paralogs. For genes whose mouse orthologs have been knocked out, essentials in protein
complexes were much more likely to have an essential mouse or yeast ortholog than other genes
(Fig [4](#fig04)C and D). Furthermore, we find that essential genes in
protein complexes are less likely to have paralogs than nonessential genes (Fig [4](#fig04)E). In particular, essential genes in essential complexes are more likely to be
singletons than other classes (Fig [4](#fig04)E).
Biological sources of variability in RNAi negative selection screens
Having derived a set of performance metrics using essential genes at the screen and gene level,
we sought to understand some of the drivers of variability, particularly in lentiviral-based pooled
RNA interference screens across a large panel of human cancer cell lines. Fortunately, the
pancreatic and ovarian cancer cell line screens have matching gene expression microarray data
collected on the same array platform (Marcotte et al,
[2012](#b32)). Measuring the correlation between gene expression and screen
F-measure across 31 cell lines (one outlier removed), we found that AGO2 had the
top-ranked correlation among more than 10,000 expressed genes (Pearson's correlation
coefficient = 0.59; Fig [5](#fig05)A). The AGO2 protein, coupled
with short RNA, comprises the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), which catalyzes the cleavage of
target mRNA and was expected to be an important predictor of RNAi efficiency. The relationship
between AGO2 mRNA expression and shRNA screen quality was weaker in the breast cancer screens ( [Supplementary Fig S3](#SD9)), which may reflect some
combination of generally better performing screens in breast cancer cell lines—with
corresponding lower variability—and the fact that the expression data were collected on a
different microarray platform.
While AGO2 expression may help explain why some screens perform better than others, it does
little to explain the variability within high-performing screens. Though the large number of genes
observed infrequently in Fig
[2](#fig02)C reflects the expected
distribution of false positives across the screens, we expected a more pronounced peak at the right
edge of the distribution from core essentials observed across most or all high-performing screens.
We explored other molecular genetic data to explain this false negative rate among known essentials
and derived absolute copy number for each gene across 30 pancreatic and ovarian cancer cell lines in
our study (see Materials and Methods and [Supplementary Dataset S6](#SD6)). We calculated a Pearson's correlation coefficient for each
gene's copy number profile vs. its Bayes Factor profile across the same screens and observed
that core essential genes show a negative correlation between copy number and essentiality (Fig [5](#fig05)B). Notably, the core essential genes largely encode members of
essential protein complexes, and our observation is consistent with a model whereby increased copy
number yields protein levels in excess of stoichiometric requirements for protein complex function.
The genes are likely no less essential, as complete knockout would probably still kill the cells,
but the copy number amplification renders them less sensitive to RNAi perturbation. Binning core
essential genes by absolute copy number and measuring the fraction in each bin that are successfully
identified in the screens (Fig [5](#fig05)C) support this model. In
other words, as copy number increases, the likelihood that a core essential is accurately classified
drops markedly. Based on the difference between the overall observed false negative rate and the
false negative rate at copy number = 2, we estimate that 15–20% of false
negatives (core essentials not accurately classified as essential in a cell line) are attributable
to copy number variation. This hypothesis could be tested by employing orthogonal genome-editing
technologies, such as CRISPR, though such technologies might also be limited.
Leveraging gold-standard reference sets to improve analyses of CRISPR and shRNA screens
We used matrix decomposition to generate a seed set of reference global essentials to train our
Bayesian classifier, the application of which ultimately yielded 291 core essential genes across 48
high-performing shRNA screens of 68 cell lines. We filtered these genes for constitutive, invariant
expression across the BodyMap and ENCODE RNA-seq samples, yielding a set of 217 genes we label
Constitutive Core Essentials (CCE). We then divided the CCE, as
well as the previously described NEGs, into equal-sized training and test sets
(CCE-train, CCE-test, NEG-train, NEG-test) and used them as improved reference sets
to train our classifier and evaluate both data quality and analytical approaches in other data sets
as well as screens withheld from our initial set of 72 cancer cell lines (Fig
[6](#fig06)A).
Improving analyses of shRNA pooled library screens
Our laboratory recently published a study of shRNA-driven synthetic lethality with several query
knockout genes in an isogenic HCT116 colon cancer cell line background (Vizeacoumar et
al,
[2013](#b47)). The HCT116 cell line is near diploid and
thus does not suffer from SCNA-driven biological artifacts. We trained our Bayesian classifier with
CCE-train and NEG-train, applying a uniform prior (P(essential)/P(nonessential); see Materials and
Methods) of 0.1, to yield a posterior log odds (LOD) of essentiality for each gene in each screen.
Recall and precision were evaluated against CCE-test and NEG-test, and an F-measure
was calculated at a point on the curve where the LOD score crossed zero (Fig [6](#fig06)B). All six screens had F-measures > 0.8, adding
confidence to analyses of essentiality and differential essentiality gleaned from these screens.
We applied the same analytical approach to the compendium of 102 pooled library shRNA screens
from Project Achilles (Cheung et al,
[2011](#b7)),
after filtering the reference sets for genes assayed by the 54k hairpin library used for those
screens. Finding the point on the precision-recall curve where the LOD score crosses zero (Fig [6](#fig06)C, blue), we observe wide variability in the quality of the
screens: only 65 of the 102 screens had an F-measure of 0.70 or greater. This
variability in screen performance is consistent with that seen in the Marcotte et
al screens, and the lower overall F-measures may reflect bias from using
different shRNA libraries rather than decreased performance (see below).
The reference sets can be used independently to evaluate any method of analyzing essentiality
screens. For example, we used CCE-test and NEG-test to evaluate the published results of the ATARiS
algorithm as applied to the Achilles data (Shao et al,
[2012](#b40)). After filtering the reference sets for genes with ATARiS solutions, genes
from each screen were ranked by phenotype score, with the most negative score indicating strongest
phenotype. Recall and precision were determined at a phenotype score of −1 (Fig [6](#fig06)C, red); generally, only a few hundred genes have stronger
scores. ATARiS gave predictions for many cell lines that were worse than random, perhaps in part
because it included all the Achilles data sets, including the lower quality ones. Filtering the
input data for known performing screens could potentially improve scoring performance.
Using a different approach, Solimini et al (
[2013](#b43)) analyzed the distribution of copy number changes of tumor suppressors
(‘STOP’ genes) and essential genes (‘GO’ genes) across thousands of
tumor-normal pairs. In the absence of a reference set of essential genes, the authors used two
approaches to define GO genes: screening and theoretical. In the screening approach, the authors
identified hairpins that dropped out in 5 of 9 library shRNA screens, yielding 1,127 genes with at
least one hairpin. Though the single-hairpin approach is not widely accepted due to the frequency of
off-target effects (Kaelin, [2012](#b23)), the error rate is
mitigated somewhat by requiring multiple observations across multiple screens. Evaluated against
CCE-test and NEG-test, this set shows 49.5% recall and 16.9% FDR. The theoretical
approach drew upon genes from selected core pathways in KEGG and yielded 545 genes with 54.1%
recall and 1.7% FDR.
While the reference sets are broadly applicable to cancer functional genomics studies, the
Bayesian approach used to classify essential genes can be readily extended to integrate other
molecular data. We collected RNA-seq gene expression data on four pancreatic cancer cell lines
withheld from our analysis of the COLT-cancer dataset and rank-ordered and binned
(n = 500) genes by expression level. Within each bin, we plotted the mean
expression (± s.d.) versus the fraction of genes in the CCE-train reference set (Fig
[6](#fig06)D). We then used a linear fit to these data to calculate an
expression-based informative prior for each gene, replacing the uniform prior used above in the
calculation of LOD score (see Materials and Methods). Fig [6](#fig06)D
shows the relationship between gene essentiality and expression in the CAPAN-2 cell line, while
Fig [6](#fig06)E shows the relative performance of four analytical
approaches evaluated against CCE-test and NEG-test. Applying the gene expression prior improved the
performance of the screen in all cases (see [Supplementary Fig S4](#SD10) for the other 3 screens) over the LOD score with the uninformative
prior and increased the margin of improvement over two current state of the art algorithms for
library RNAi screens, GARP and RIGER. Thus, the combination of the reference set of core essentials
and the Bayesian classifier offers a best-in-class method for analyzing such screens as well as a
framework for integrating other molecular data to improve performance. Moreover, the core essentials
offer a ready reference set against which to evaluate the relative performance of such screens.
Evaluating CRISPR Negative Selection Screens
Gold-standard reference sets of essential and nonessential genes can be used to evaluate any
large-scale assay of gene essentiality. Recently, the CRISPR system has been adapted to induce
targeted genetic modification of human cells (Cong et al,
[2013](#b8); Mali et al, [2013](#b31)) and
has been applied in genome-scale pooled library positive selection screens for specific pathway
members and negative selection screens for essential genes. For example, Shalem et
al ( [2013](#b39)) recently published negative selection
screens targeting 18,080 genes with ∼65,000 guide sequences (gRNA) in two human cell lines,
A375 melanoma cells and HUES62 embryonic stem cells. As with shRNA screens, a CRISPR gRNA targeting
an essential gene will drop out of a population, resulting in a strong negative fold-change for that
gRNA. As expected, the fold-change distributions of gRNA targeting training-set essential genes were
left-shifted relative to the distributions of gRNA targeting nonessential genes (Fig [7](#fig07)A). We used these distributions to train our Bayesian classifier
and evaluated our results against the withheld test sets. Fig [7](#fig07)B shows the improvement that the Bayesian classifier offers over the approach used in the
original study. It also highlights the poor performance of the HUES62 screen, which explains the
sparse overlap between the two screens reported in the original study.
Concurrently, Wang et al (
[2013](#b48)) reported
negative selection screens targeting 7,114 genes in two human cell lines, including the near-haploid
KBM7 cell line. The performance curves of these screens, measured against CCE-test and NEG-test and
shown in Fig [7](#fig07)C, are impressive but likely underestimate the
actual error rates of these screens as core essential ribosomal genes are overrepresented and the
nonessential reference set is severely underrepresented among target genes (∼6-fold depletion
relative to the Shalem et al library).
Taken together, these analyses offer two key insights into the differences between CRISPR and RNAi screens. The Bayes Factor analysis of the Shalem et al screen classifies 805 targets as essential at zero FDR. These 805 genes represent 47% recall of the reference essential set; extrapolation suggests there may be well over 1,600 essential genes in this cell line. As this is more than double the number of high-confidence essentials detected in most shRNA screens, and 50% more than the total number of essentials suggested by the cumulative analysis of RNAi screens, it suggests that CRISPR screens may have substantially greater sensitivity than pooled library shRNA screens.
We explored this finding by comparing both CRISPR and shRNA results to sample-matched gene
expression data. In the Bayes Factor analysis of the four withheld pancreatic cancer cell line
screens described above (without any expression prior to prevent circularity), the screens have an
average of 664 genes with BF > 5 (range 584–740). We therefore defined the top 664
genes from each screen as hits. We then quantile normalized the corresponding gene expression values
(rendering the distributions identical), rank-ordered each cell line's genes by expression
level, and binned genes into groups of 500. For each screen, the mean expression level of genes in
the bin was plotted against the fraction of genes in each bin that are classified as essential.
Fig.
[7](#fig07)D (red) shows the relationship between gene expression
level and essentiality for the four shRNA screens. Genes with trace or zero expression (left edge of
plot) cannot be essential, and hits in this group are almost certainly false positives. The fraction
of genes with expression < −2 that are classified as hits (Fig [7](#fig07)D, red dashed line, right axis) therefore estimates the screen's
background error rate.
We compared this to the CRISPR Bayes Factor results described above. At a BF ≥ 20, we
identify 660 essential genes, roughly the same number as the average of the shRNA screens. Plotting
these genes as described above (Fig
[7](#fig07)D, green), we observe a
background error rate > 10-fold lower than that of the shRNA screens. Relaxing the threshold
to BF ≥ 10 (Fig [7](#fig07)D, blue), we find 1,319 essential
genes with a false positive rate comparable to, though still lower than, that of the shRNA screens.
Though this is preliminary analysis of a single CRISPR screen measured against gene expression data
from a different study, to a first approximation, the CRISPR technology shows a tenfold lower
off-target rate at the same coverage as shRNA, or double the coverage at a comparable error rate.
Moreover, CRISPR appears to show increased sensitivity at lower, but still biologically relevant,
expression levels.
Though CRISPR appears to offer a more accurate assay of gene essentiality, the error rate increases markedly after the top ∼1,500 hits. False discovery rates of genome-scale CRISPR screens are largely unexplored in the first-generation published screens, but our analysis indicates that nontrivial numbers of false positives are indeed present in these screens. It is currently unknown whether these false positives arise from the technical variability inherent in large-scale screens or from the biological activity of off-target gRNA sequences. The reference sets and analytical methods we describe here offer a framework for understanding the nature of these false positives and, in turn, for refining the design of CRISPR gRNA libraries and experimental protocols.
Minimizing bias by integrating data sets
We derived a preliminary set of core essential genes by finding essential genes in a majority of high-performing shRNA screens in the COLT compendium from Marcotte et al. The genes contained in this set are highly enriched for core cellular processes—in particular, they encode subunits of the protein complexes involved in transcription, translation, and replication—and have a very low incidence of false positives. This set improves on the results in Marcotte et al, which described 297 ‘general essentials’ (293 with current gene IDs). The intersection of this set with our 291 core essentials (n = 199) shows a high proportion of genes with constitutive, invariant expression (81%). Of the genes unique to Marcotte et al (n = 94), only 42% have constitutive, invariant expression, compared to 61% of those unique to this study (n = 92), indicating higher accuracy.
These screens were all performed using the same shRNA library, and cell lines from only three cancer tissues of origin were assayed, likely yielding a biased summary of essential genes with an unknown number of false negatives. To minimize this bias, we integrated our results with those derived from an identical analysis of the Project Achilles screens, which were conducted with a different pooled shRNA library. Taking the 65 Achilles screens with F-measure > 0.70 (Supplementary Fig S5A), we identified the Bayes Factor threshold at which the average screen FDR was similar to the average screen FDR of the 46 COLT screens used above. At BF > 5, corresponding to an average screen FDR of 16%, we identified 345 genes that were essential in at least 33 of the 65 Achilles screens (Supplementary Fig S5B), of which 247 showed constitutive, invariant expression (Supplementary Fig S5C). Of these, 104 are the same as those in the 217-gene COLT-derived CCE set, for a final set of 360 core essential genes. Genes unique to either set show similar proportions of constitutively expressed genes (63–65%), suggesting similar accuracy. The union of the two analyses is ∼50% larger than the result from either data set alone, suggesting a substantial false negative rate for individual data sets derived from a single shRNA library.
The Daisy model of gene essentiality
The mouse knockout data highlight an important factor in the study of gene essentiality. The
definition of essentiality is context-dependent: a mouse (or human) gene may reasonably be
classified as essential if its complete loss of function results in a phenotype ranging from
prenatal to juvenile lethality or even sterility, with the onus on the researcher to explicitly
define the term. Cell line assays of gene essentiality necessarily sample only the genes required
for the proliferation of that cell line in cultured conditions; genes which may be required for
organismal health may not be expressed in a given cell line and thus will not be detectable.
Nevertheless, there is a core set of ubiquitously expressed, ubiquitously essential genes that
should be detectable in virtually any cell line screen. This gives rise to the ‘daisy
model’ of gene essentiality (Fig
[8](#fig08)A), where each petal
represents a cell-line- or tissue-specific context in which a gene's activity might be
required. Petals will overlap to varying degrees but all will share the core set of essential genes.
The core essentials described here represent our effort to define this set of universally essential
genes.
The link between gene essentiality and genetic predisposition to disease has long been a topic of
active study. We took the set of mouse knockout essentials and divided them into core and peripheral
essentials based on whether or not they were included in our integrated set of 360 core essential
genes. Analyzing these sets for disease gene enrichment reveals that peripheral essentials are
strongly enriched for disease genes (P = 2.5e-41; Fig
[8](#fig08)B), while core essentials show no enrichment beyond random expectation. This is
consistent with previous findings (Lohmueller et al, [2008](#b27); Chavali et al, [2010](#b6);
Dickerson et al, [2011](#b11)), which gives rise to
a model wherein core essential genes are less tolerant to genetic variation than peripheral
essentials. The recent publication of large-scale human population genetic studies allows us to test
these hypotheses. Fig [8](#fig08)C shows the rate of putative
deleterious mutation observed in 2440 exomes (Tennessen et al, [2012](#b44)), by gene class. Core essentials are much less likely to show
deleterious variants than other essential or nonessential genes and are twice as likely to have no
observed variant (Fig [8](#fig08)C, inset). This is further reflected
when comparing our core essential genes to the human essential genes delineated by Liao and Zhang
(Liao & Zhang, [2008](#b26)). They find 120 human null
mutations that give rise to juvenile lethality or sterility, which are organismal or peripheral
essentials by our definitions, and as predicted show little overlap (n = 3)
with our core essentials.
Discussion
In this study, we have generated a global set of essential genes in human cell lines based on experimental data. Drawn from genes that show consistent strong antiproliferative effects across a panel of pooled library shRNA screens in cancer cell lines, these essential genes are highly enriched for conserved protein complexes that carry out the fundamental work of the cell: transcription, translation, DNA replication, and protein degradation. Consistent with previous studies, these genes are more likely to be essential in mouse knockout studies and less likely to have a human paralog than other genes. We label these genes ‘core essentials’ as they are likely essential across all cell lines, tissue types, and developmental states.
We exploit the difference between core and peripheral, or context-specific, essentials in two ways. First, at the organismal level, we show that peripheral essentials, including human homologs of mouse essential genes, are more likely to be disease genes and demonstrate that core essentials show lower incidence of putative deleterious mutation in a normal human population. This finding explains a longstanding observation that human disease genes are enriched for whole-organism essentials but tend not to be housekeeping genes. That is, hypomorphic alleles of peripheral essentials cause a partial loss of fitness (i.e. disease), but hypomorphic alleles of core essentials are fatal. Cumulative analysis of RNAi screens suggests a total population of ∼1,000 human cell line essential genes, while preliminary analysis of genome-scale CRISPR screens suggests roughly double this number, perhaps reflecting reduced sensitivity of RNAi methods against lower-expression genes.
Second, we derive the ‘daisy model’ of gene essentiality from the difference between core and context-specific cell line essentials, wherein each petal represents the set of essential genes in one cell line, tissue, or genomic context. Petals will overlap to varying degrees, but all contexts share the common core essentials. While the focus of essentiality studies in cancer cell lines is to find context-specific essentials that can provide highly specific therapeutic targets, the degree to which a screen recapitulates the shared core essentials is a critical measure of its accuracy.
We used the core essentials, in conjunction with a set of putative nonessentials derived from the Illumina BodyMap and ENCODE studies of gene expression in human tissues and cell lines, as gold-standard reference sets to train a Bayesian predictor of gene essentiality in pooled library shRNA screens and to test our algorithm as well as several previously published algorithms and data sets. Our algorithm substantially outperforms other methods on the data sets we tested, particularly when coupled with sample-matched gene expression data. We also demonstrate that our method is applicable to other pooled library negative selection screens using CRISPR genome-editing technology and look forward to the onslaught of genome-scale screens that will emerge using this technology.
Our analyses reveal that copy number amplification in cancer cell lines can substantially
decrease a core essential gene's sensitivity to RNAi perturbation. This is most likely driven
by the encoded protein's membership in a protein complex: genomic amplification leads to
over-expression and protein abundance beyond the stoichiometric requirements for complex function.
Interestingly, the converse is also true: hemizygosity increases sensitivity. A recent study found
that partial loss of some genes in tumors resulted in increased vulnerability to perturbations of
those genes—the so-called CYCLOPS genes (Nijhawan et al,
[2012](#b34)). As CYCLOPS genes are enriched subunits of core essential
complexes, our findings may extend the CYCLOPS concept to all core essential complexes. That is,
copy number losses among essential subunits may render cancer cells more susceptible to
pharmacological compounds targeting these complexes. This concept may apply to expression-sensitive
enzymes as well.
Broadly speaking, the reference sets of cell line essential and nonessential genes we provide
represent a useful yardstick against which cancer functional genomics studies can be measured. Lack
of such suitable yardsticks has contributed to critical errors in the field, including high profile
reports of synthetic lethal interactions with common oncogenes (Scholl et al,
[2009](#b38)) that were later disproven (Babij et al,
[2011](#b1); Luo et al, [2012](#b29); Weiwer et al, [2012](#b49))
(and also do not appear in our data), and has led to a reassessment of shRNA methodologies (Kaelin,
[2012](#b23)). Such gold-standard reference sets will become
increasingly important as the CRISPR genome-scale genetic perturbation technology matures (Cong
et al, [2013](#b8); Mali et al,
[2013](#b31)). Our analysis of available data indicates that CRISPR
screens can be more sensitive than RNAi methods in detecting essential genes, but that CRISPR
library screening is also subject to a nontrivial false discovery rate—a finding that is
largely ignored in the current literature. Progressively improving performance against an
established set of benchmarks is the best way to validate such new technologies and their
accompanying analytical methods, to ensure their widespread adoption, and to unlock the biological
discovery that their application enables.
Materials and Methods
Software
A collection of python scripts and sample data is available as a supplementary archive file (Supplementary Software Package). The archive contains all the scripts, data, and reference sets necessary to calculate Bayes Factors for one cell line.
Using Matrix Decomposition to find a seed set of putative essentials
The 72 pooled library shRNA screens were divided into three sets: group one (n = 34), group two (n = 34), and withheld (n = 4; see sample key in Supplementary Dataset S1). For screens in group one, all repeats from all timepoints were combined into a fold-change matrix of ∼78,000 hairpins by ∼200 arrays. Singular value decomposition was performed on the matrix; the top singular value was found to explain > 40% of the total variance of the matrix (see Supplementary Fig S1). Hairpins with strong positive projections onto the first left singular vector (U1) showed strong negative fold-change across most of the 34 samples in the group one matrix.
We used a statistical filter to find genes enriched for hairpins with strong U1 projections. For each gene, hairpins were rank-ordered by U1 projection, and the median projection p among hairpins targeting the gene was determined. Then, the enrichment P-value was calculated by the hypergeometric test:
P(enrichment) = hypergeometric(X >= x|n, m, N).
where x is the rank of the median hairpin for the gene; n is the number of hairpins targeting the gene; m is the total number of hairpins in the population with U1 projection >= P; and N is the total number of hairpins in the experiment.
Adjusted P-values were calculated by the method of Benjamini & Hochberg, and genes with adjusted P-value < 0.25 were selected as putative seed essentials. This list was further filtered for genes with constitutive, invariant gene expression across two sets of RNA-seq data, the ENCODE set of 17 human cell lines, and the Illumina BodyMap set of 16 healthy human tissues (see RNA-seq analysis, below).
RNA-seq analysis
We used Tophat v1.4.1 to align RNA-seq reads to the hg19 human transcriptome defined in the
Gencode v14 GTF file, using default Tophat parameters. We used Cufflinks in quantitation-only mode
with the same GTF file to generate FPKM values for each gene. FPKM values were filtered for
protein-coding genes (as defined by HGNC,
[http://www.genenames.org](http://www.genenames.org)) and log-transformed (adding 0.01 as a pseudocount). The mean
log(FPKM) of technical or biological repeats was used, where applicable (e.g. biological repeats in
ENCODE and technical repeats at 2 × 50 and 1 × 75 read type for BodyMap).
For ENCODE (GEO accession
[GSE30567](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE30567)) and BodyMap (EBI accession E-MTAB-513), constitutive,
invariant genes were defined as genes with mean expression in each data set > 0 and standard
deviation < mean standard deviation across all protein-coding genes. Genes must be
constitutive and invariant in both data sets. The reference set of putative nonessential genes is
defined as protein-coding genes with FPKM < 0.1 in 15 of 16 BodyMap tissues
and FPKM < 0.1 in 16 of 17 ENCODE cell lines. The set is filtered for genes
that are assayed by the pooled shRNA library.
Calculating the Bayes factor
Seed essentials from SVD of group one and nonessentials from gene expression were divided into equal-sized sets for training and testing, and used to train and evaluate the classifier for each cell line in group two (and vice versa). Each cell line was assayed at two timepoints. For each timepoint, a density function of the fold-changes of all hairpins targeting essential genes in the training set was estimated by Gaussian kernel density estimation using the scipy.stats.gaussian_kde function in Python. The process was repeated for nonessential genes. Then, for each gene, the Bayes Factor is calculated as follows:
across hairpin observations i and timepoints j, where Pr(x) is the density function.
Log-transforming the equation yields:
For a typical gene with 5 cognate hairpins assayed with three biological repeats, the log(BF) is the sum of 15 values at each of two timepoints.
Contributions to the BF score can be dominated by high fold-change hairpins, where the Pr(data | nonessential) term is very small. To prevent these outliers from dominating the final BF, we empirically truncate log2 fold-changes at −4 and +0.5. This keeps individual hairpin contributions to the BF within a reasonable dynamic range, and greater absolute fold-changes do not provide substantially greater evidence for or against essentiality.
Using priors to calculate posterior log odds
A Bayes Factor can be extended to a posterior odds ratio by multiplying by an appropriate ratio of priors:
Where indicated in the main text that a posterior log odds ratio (LOD score) was calculated (e.g. the withheld group, the HCT116 screens, and the Achilles screens), a uniform prior ratio of 0.1 was applied (by adding log2(prior) = −3.32 to each logBF), representing a background expectation that ∼10% of assayed genes are essential.
For samples in the withheld group, we also calculated a specific prior for each gene based on its
expression level. We generated log2(FPKM) values for all protein-coding genes as
described above. Genes were rank-ordered by expression level and binned (n =
500). For each bin, we calculated the mean expression level of genes in the bin and the
log2 of the fraction of genes in the CCE-train reference set, adding a pseudocount of
0.001 to prevent infinities (see Fig
[6](#fig06)D). A linear fit was
applied to bins with mean expression > 1. This linear fit was used to calculate an
expression-based prior, with the log2(fraction essential genes in bin) approximating the
log-prior described above.
Evaluating precision and recall for each screen
For each screen, the applicable reference sets were divided into equal-sized training and testing sets. Training sets were used to estimate the density functions of essential and nonessential hairpin fold-changes, as described above, and (where applicable) to calculate the expression-based prior. Withheld testing sets were used to evaluate the performance of each screen.
Genes from each evaluated screen were rank-ordered by Bayes Factor or LOD score, which ever was applicable. Then, for each gene, the cumulative precision and recall were calculated as Recall = TP/(TP + FN) and Precision = TP/(TP + FP), where TP = true positives, the number of genes in the essentials test set with BF/LOD score greater than the current gene; (TP + FN) = the total number of essentials in the test set; and FP = false positives, the number of genes in the nonessentials test set with BF/LOD score greater than the current gene.
The F-measure was calculated as a single, global metric for screen quality. The F-measure is the harmonic mean of precision and recall calculated at a specified BF/LOD (typically 0):
To evaluate the ATARiS results, we used phenotype scores from
Achilles_102lines_gene_solutions.gct (downloaded from
[http://www.broadinstitute.org/achilles/](http://www.broadinstitute.org/achilles/)). For each screen, genes were rank-ordered by
phenotype score and precision and recall were calculated as above, using the CCE-test and NE-test
reference sets. F-measure was calculated at phenotype score = −1.
Absolute copy number
SNP analysis was performed at the University Health Network Microarray Center (Toronto, ON, CA)
using Illumina (Illumina, San Diego, CA) HumanOmni1 BeadChip according to manufacturer's
instructions. Normalized LogR ratio (LRR) and B allele frequency (BAF) signals for each probe were
exported from the Illumina BeadStudio utility. Export files were then processed with the Genome
Alteration Print (GAP) algorithm (Popova et al,
[2009](#b36)). Projections of LRR and BAF profiles were created, and pattern recognition was
performed for each samples. Parameters were set as followed: germHomozyg.mBAF.thr > 0.97 and
p_BAF = 0 (no normal contamination). Each pattern was visually inspected and corrected when
the grid was off the segment center clusters. Output files produced by GAP were processed in order
to obtain segments defined by copy number change only. Briefly, adjacent segments with identical
absolute copy number were merged, and the LRR values were averaged. Gene level absolute copy number
and LRR were obtained using the CNTools package.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank all the members of the Moffat and Rottapel labs for helpful discussions. This work was supported by the Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation's GL2 Program and the Selective Therapies Program at the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research. JM is a Tier II Canada Research Chair in Functional Genetics and a Research Fellow at the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research.
Author contributions
TH and JM conceived of the ideas and wrote the manuscript with input from KRB, FS, and RR.
Conflict of interest
The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.
Supporting Information
Supplementary information for this article is available online:
[http://msb.embopress.org](http://msb.embopress.org)
References
-
Babij C, Zhang Y, Kurzeja RJ, Munzli A, Shehabeldin A, Fernando M, Quon K, Kassner PD, Ruefli-Brasse AA, Watson VJ, Fajardo F, Jackson A, Zondlo J, Sun Y, Ellison AR, Plewa CA, San MT, Robinson J, McCarter J, Schwandner R, et al. STK33 kinase activity is nonessential in KRAS-dependent cancer cells. Cancer Res. 2011;71:5818–5826. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0778. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0778)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21742770/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cancer%20Res&title=STK33%20kinase%20activity%20is%20nonessential%20in%20KRAS-dependent%20cancer%20cells&author=C%20Babij&author=Y%20Zhang&author=RJ%20Kurzeja&author=A%20Munzli&author=A%20Shehabeldin&volume=71&publication_year=2011&pages=5818-5826&pmid=21742770&doi=10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0778&)]
-
Boutros M, Kiger AA, Armknecht S, Kerr K, Hild M, Koch B, Haas SA, Paro R, Perrimon N, Heidelberg Fly Array C. Genome-wide RNAi analysis of growth and viability in Drosophila cells. Science. 2004;303:832–835. doi: 10.1126/science.1091266. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1091266)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14764878/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Genome-wide%20RNAi%20analysis%20of%20growth%20and%20viability%20in%20Drosophila%20cells&author=M%20Boutros&author=AA%20Kiger&author=S%20Armknecht&author=K%20Kerr&author=M%20Hild&volume=303&publication_year=2004&pages=832-835&pmid=14764878&doi=10.1126/science.1091266&)]
-
Burckstummer T, Banning C, Hainzl P, Schobesberger R, Kerzendorfer C, Pauler FM, Chen D, Them N, Schischlik F, Rebsamen M, Smida M, de laCruz FF, Lapao A, Liszt M, Eizinger B, Guenzl PM, Blomen VA, Konopka T, Gapp B, Parapatics K, et al. A reversible gene trap collection empowers haploid genetics in human
cells. Nat Methods. 2013;10:1548–7105. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.2609. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2609)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC6342250/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24161985/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nat%20Methods&title=A%20reversible%20gene%20trap%20collection%20empowers%20haploid%20genetics%20in%20human%20cells&author=T%20Burckstummer&author=C%20Banning&author=P%20Hainzl&author=R%20Schobesberger&author=C%20Kerzendorfer&volume=10&publication_year=2013&pages=1548-7105&pmid=24161985&doi=10.1038/nmeth.2609&)]
-
Carette JE, Guimaraes CP, Varadarajan M, Park AS, Wuethrich I, Godarova A, Kotecki M, Cochran BH, Spooner E, Ploegh HL, Brummelkamp TR. Haploid genetic screens in human cells identify host factors used by
pathogens. Science. 2009;326:1231–1235. doi: 10.1126/science.1178955. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1178955)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19965467/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Haploid%20genetic%20screens%20in%20human%20cells%20identify%20host%20factors%20used%20by%20pathogens&author=JE%20Carette&author=CP%20Guimaraes&author=M%20Varadarajan&author=AS%20Park&author=I%20Wuethrich&volume=326&publication_year=2009&pages=1231-1235&pmid=19965467&doi=10.1126/science.1178955&)]
-
Castle WE, Little CC. On a modified mendelian ratio among yellow mice. Science. 1910;32:868–870. doi: 10.1126/science.32.833.868. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.32.833.868)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17830668/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=On%20a%20modified%20mendelian%20ratio%20among%20yellow%20mice&author=WE%20Castle&author=CC%20Little&volume=32&publication_year=1910&pages=868-870&pmid=17830668&doi=10.1126/science.32.833.868&)]
-
Chavali S, Barrenas F, Kanduri K, Benson M. Network properties of human disease genes with pleiotropic effects. BMC Syst Biol. 2010;4:78. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-4-78. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/1752-0509-4-78)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2892460/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20525321/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Syst%20Biol&title=Network%20properties%20of%20human%20disease%20genes%20with%20pleiotropic%20effects&author=S%20Chavali&author=F%20Barrenas&author=K%20Kanduri&author=M%20Benson&volume=4&publication_year=2010&pages=78&pmid=20525321&doi=10.1186/1752-0509-4-78&)]
-
Cheung HW, Cowley GS, Weir BA, Boehm JS, Rusin S, Scott JA, East A, Ali LD, Lizotte PH, Wong TC, Jiang G, Hsiao J, Mermel CH, Getz G, Barretina J, Gopal S, Tamayo P, Gould J, Tsherniak A, Stransky N, et al. Systematic investigation of genetic vulnerabilities across cancer cell lines reveals
lineage-specific dependencies in ovarian cancer. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2011;108:12372–12377. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1109363108. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1109363108)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3145679/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21746896/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA&title=Systematic%20investigation%20of%20genetic%20vulnerabilities%20across%20cancer%20cell%20lines%20reveals%20lineage-specific%20dependencies%20in%20ovarian%20cancer&author=HW%20Cheung&author=GS%20Cowley&author=BA%20Weir&author=JS%20Boehm&author=S%20Rusin&volume=108&publication_year=2011&pages=12372-12377&pmid=21746896&doi=10.1073/pnas.1109363108&)]
-
Cong L, Ran FA, Cox D, Lin S, Barretto R, Habib N, Hsu PD, Wu X, Jiang W, Marraffini LA, Zhang F. Multiplex genome engineering using CRISPR/Cas systems. Science. 2013;339:819–823. doi: 10.1126/science.1231143. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1231143)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3795411/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23287718/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Multiplex%20genome%20engineering%20using%20CRISPR/Cas%20systems&author=L%20Cong&author=FA%20Ran&author=D%20Cox&author=S%20Lin&author=R%20Barretto&volume=339&publication_year=2013&pages=819-823&pmid=23287718&doi=10.1126/science.1231143&)]
-
Cuenot L. Les races pures et leurs combinaisons chez les souris. Archives de Zoologie Experimentale et Generale. 1905;4:123–132. [
[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Archives%20de%20Zoologie%20Experimentale%20et%20Generale&title=Les%20races%20pures%20et%20leurs%20combinaisons%20chez%20les%20souris&author=L%20Cuenot&volume=4&publication_year=1905&pages=123-132&)]
-
Davoli T, Xu AW, Mengwasser KE, Sack LM, Yoon JC, Park PJ, Elledge SJ. Cumulative haploinsufficiency and triplosensitivity drive aneuploidy patterns and
shape the cancer genome. Cell. 2013;155:948–962. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2013.10.011. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2013.10.011)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3891052/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24183448/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cell&title=Cumulative%20haploinsufficiency%20and%20triplosensitivity%20drive%20aneuploidy%20patterns%20and%20shape%20the%20cancer%20genome&author=T%20Davoli&author=AW%20Xu&author=KE%20Mengwasser&author=LM%20Sack&author=JC%20Yoon&volume=155&publication_year=2013&pages=948-962&pmid=24183448&doi=10.1016/j.cell.2013.10.011&)]
-
Dickerson JE, Zhu A, Robertson DL, Hentges KE. Defining the role of essential genes in human disease. PLoS ONE. 2011;6:e27368. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027368. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0027368)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3214036/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22096564/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=PLoS%20ONE&title=Defining%20the%20role%20of%20essential%20genes%20in%20human%20disease&author=JE%20Dickerson&author=A%20Zhu&author=DL%20Robertson&author=KE%20Hentges&volume=6&publication_year=2011&pages=e27368&pmid=22096564&doi=10.1371/journal.pone.0027368&)]
-
Dietzl G, Chen D, Schnorrer F, Su KC, Barinova Y, Fellner M, Gasser B, Kinsey K, Oppel S, Scheiblauer S, Couto A, Marra V, Keleman K, Dickson BJ. A genome-wide transgenic RNAi library for conditional gene inactivation in
Drosophila. Nature. 2007;448:151–156. doi: 10.1038/nature05954. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature05954)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17625558/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=A%20genome-wide%20transgenic%20RNAi%20library%20for%20conditional%20gene%20inactivation%20in%20Drosophila&author=G%20Dietzl&author=D%20Chen&author=F%20Schnorrer&author=KC%20Su&author=Y%20Barinova&volume=448&publication_year=2007&pages=151-156&pmid=17625558&doi=10.1038/nature05954&)]
-
Echeverri CJ, Beachy PA, Baum B, Boutros M, Buchholz F, Chanda SK, Downward J, Ellenberg J, Fraser AG, Hacohen N, Hahn WC, Jackson AL, Kiger A, Linsley PS, Lum L, Ma Y, Mathey-Prevot B, Root DE, Sabatini DM, Taipale J, et al. Minimizing the risk of reporting false positives in large-scale RNAi
screens. Nat Methods. 2006;3:777–779. doi: 10.1038/nmeth1006-777. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth1006-777)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16990807/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nat%20Methods&title=Minimizing%20the%20risk%20of%20reporting%20false%20positives%20in%20large-scale%20RNAi%20screens&author=CJ%20Echeverri&author=PA%20Beachy&author=B%20Baum&author=M%20Boutros&author=F%20Buchholz&volume=3&publication_year=2006&pages=777-779&pmid=16990807&doi=10.1038/nmeth1006-777&)]
-
Giaever G, Chu AM, Ni L, Connelly C, Riles L, Veronneau S, Dow S, Lucau-Danila A, Anderson K, Andre B, Arkin AP, Astromoff A, El-Bakkoury M, Bangham R, Benito R, Brachat S, Campanaro S, Curtiss M, Davis K, Deutschbauer A, et al. Functional profiling of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae
genome. Nature. 2002;418:387–391. doi: 10.1038/nature00935. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature00935)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12140549/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=Functional%20profiling%20of%20the%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20genome&author=G%20Giaever&author=AM%20Chu&author=L%20Ni&author=C%20Connelly&author=L%20Riles&volume=418&publication_year=2002&pages=387-391&pmid=12140549&doi=10.1038/nature00935&)]
-
Gu Z, Steinmetz LM, Gu X, Scharfe C, Davis RW, Li WH. Role of duplicate genes in genetic robustness against null mutations. Nature. 2003;421:63–66. doi: 10.1038/nature01198. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature01198)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12511954/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=Role%20of%20duplicate%20genes%20in%20genetic%20robustness%20against%20null%20mutations&author=Z%20Gu&author=LM%20Steinmetz&author=X%20Gu&author=C%20Scharfe&author=RW%20Davis&volume=421&publication_year=2003&pages=63-66&pmid=12511954&doi=10.1038/nature01198&)]
-
Hart GT, Ramani AK, Marcotte EM. How complete are current yeast and human protein-interaction
networks? Genome Biol. 2006;7:120. doi: 10.1186/gb-2006-7-11-120. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/gb-2006-7-11-120)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC1794583/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17147767/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genome%20Biol&title=How%20complete%20are%20current%20yeast%20and%20human%20protein-interaction%20networks?&author=GT%20Hart&author=AK%20Ramani&author=EM%20Marcotte&volume=7&publication_year=2006&pages=120&pmid=17147767&doi=10.1186/gb-2006-7-11-120&)]
-
Hart GT, Lee I, Marcotte ER. A high-accuracy consensus map of yeast protein complexes reveals modular nature of
gene essentiality. BMC Bioinformatics. 2007;8:236. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-8-236. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-8-236)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC1940025/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17605818/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Bioinformatics&title=A%20high-accuracy%20consensus%20map%20of%20yeast%20protein%20complexes%20reveals%20modular%20nature%20of%20gene%20essentiality&author=GT%20Hart&author=I%20Lee&author=ER%20Marcotte&volume=8&publication_year=2007&pages=236&pmid=17605818&doi=10.1186/1471-2105-8-236&)]
-
Hart T, Komori HK, Lamere S, Podshivalova K, Salomon DR. Finding the active genes in deep RNA-seq gene expression studies. BMC Genomics. 2013;14:778. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-778. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-14-778)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3870982/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24215113/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Genomics&title=Finding%20the%20active%20genes%20in%20deep%20RNA-seq%20gene%20expression%20studies&author=T%20Hart&author=HK%20Komori&author=S%20Lamere&author=K%20Podshivalova&author=DR%20Salomon&volume=14&publication_year=2013&pages=778&pmid=24215113&doi=10.1186/1471-2164-14-778&)]
-
Havugimana PC, Hart GT, Nepusz T, Yang H, Turinsky AL, Li Z, Wang PI, Boutz DR, Fong V, Phanse S, Babu M, Craig SA, Hu P, Wan C, Vlasblom J, Dar VU, Bezginov A, Clark GW, Wu GC, Wodak SJ, et al. A census of human soluble protein complexes. Cell. 2012;150:1068–1081. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2012.08.011. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2012.08.011)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3477804/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22939629/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cell&title=A%20census%20of%20human%20soluble%20protein%20complexes&author=PC%20Havugimana&author=GT%20Hart&author=T%20Nepusz&author=H%20Yang&author=AL%20Turinsky&volume=150&publication_year=2012&pages=1068-1081&pmid=22939629&doi=10.1016/j.cell.2012.08.011&)]
-
Hebenstreit D, Fang M, Gu M, Charoensawan V, van Oudenaarden A, Teichmann SA. RNA sequencing reveals two major classes of gene expression levels in metazoan
cells. Mol Syst Biol. 2011;7:497. doi: 10.1038/msb.2011.28. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/msb.2011.28)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3159973/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21654674/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Mol%20Syst%20Biol&title=RNA%20sequencing%20reveals%20two%20major%20classes%20of%20gene%20expression%20levels%20in%20metazoan%20cells&author=D%20Hebenstreit&author=M%20Fang&author=M%20Gu&author=V%20Charoensawan&author=A%20van%20Oudenaarden&volume=7&publication_year=2011&pages=497&pmid=21654674&doi=10.1038/msb.2011.28&)]
-
Jansen R, Gerstein M. Analyzing protein function on a genomic scale: the importance of gold-standard
positives and negatives for network prediction. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2004;7:535–545. doi: 10.1016/j.mib.2004.08.012. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mib.2004.08.012)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15451510/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Curr%20Opin%20Microbiol&title=Analyzing%20protein%20function%20on%20a%20genomic%20scale:%20the%20importance%20of%20gold-standard%20positives%20and%20negatives%20for%20network%20prediction&author=R%20Jansen&author=M%20Gerstein&volume=7&publication_year=2004&pages=535-545&pmid=15451510&doi=10.1016/j.mib.2004.08.012&)]
-
Jeong H, Mason SP, Barabasi AL, Oltvai ZN. Lethality and centrality in protein networks. Nature. 2001;411:41–42. doi: 10.1038/35075138. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/35075138)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11333967/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=Lethality%20and%20centrality%20in%20protein%20networks&author=H%20Jeong&author=SP%20Mason&author=AL%20Barabasi&author=ZN%20Oltvai&volume=411&publication_year=2001&pages=41-42&pmid=11333967&doi=10.1038/35075138&)]
-
Kaelin WG., Jr Molecular biology. Use and abuse of RNAi to study mammalian gene
function. Science. 2012;337:421–422. doi: 10.1126/science.1225787. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1225787)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3705935/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22837515/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Molecular%20biology.%20Use%20and%20abuse%20of%20RNAi%20to%20study%20mammalian%20gene%20function&author=WG%20Kaelin&volume=337&publication_year=2012&pages=421-422&pmid=22837515&doi=10.1126/science.1225787&)]
-
Kamath RS, Fraser AG, Dong Y, Poulin G, Durbin R, Gotta M, Kanapin A, Le Bot N, Moreno S, Sohrmann M, Welchman DP, Zipperlen P, Ahringer J. Systematic functional analysis of the Caenorhabditis elegans genome using
RNAi. Nature. 2003;421:231–237. doi: 10.1038/nature01278. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature01278)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12529635/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=Systematic%20functional%20analysis%20of%20the%20Caenorhabditis%20elegans%20genome%20using%20RNAi&author=RS%20Kamath&author=AG%20Fraser&author=Y%20Dong&author=G%20Poulin&author=R%20Durbin&volume=421&publication_year=2003&pages=231-237&pmid=12529635&doi=10.1038/nature01278&)]
-
Kim DU, Hayles J, Kim D, Wood V, Park HO, Won M, Yoo HS, Duhig T, Nam M, Palmer G, Han S, Jeffery L, Baek ST, Lee H, Shim YS, Lee M, Kim L, Heo KS, Noh EJ, Lee AR, et al. Analysis of a genome-wide set of gene deletions in the fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Nat Biotechnol. 2010;28:617–623. doi: 10.1038/nbt.1628. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.1628)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3962850/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20473289/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nat%20Biotechnol&title=Analysis%20of%20a%20genome-wide%20set%20of%20gene%20deletions%20in%20the%20fission%20yeast%20Schizosaccharomyces%20pombe&author=DU%20Kim&author=J%20Hayles&author=D%20Kim&author=V%20Wood&author=HO%20Park&volume=28&publication_year=2010&pages=617-623&pmid=20473289&doi=10.1038/nbt.1628&)]
-
Liao BY, Zhang J. Null mutations in human and mouse orthologs frequently result in different
phenotypes. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2008;105:6987–6992. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0800387105. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0800387105)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2383943/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18458337/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA&title=Null%20mutations%20in%20human%20and%20mouse%20orthologs%20frequently%20result%20in%20different%20phenotypes&author=BY%20Liao&author=J%20Zhang&volume=105&publication_year=2008&pages=6987-6992&pmid=18458337&doi=10.1073/pnas.0800387105&)]
-
Lohmueller KE, Indap AR, Schmidt S, Boyko AR, Hernandez RD, Hubisz MJ, Sninsky JJ, White TJ, Sunyaev SR, Nielsen R, Clark AG, Bustamante CD. Proportionally more deleterious genetic variation in European than in African
populations. Nature. 2008;451:994–997. doi: 10.1038/nature06611. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature06611)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2923434/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18288194/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Nature&title=Proportionally%20more%20deleterious%20genetic%20variation%20in%20European%20than%20in%20African%20populations&author=KE%20Lohmueller&author=AR%20Indap&author=S%20Schmidt&author=AR%20Boyko&author=RD%20Hernandez&volume=451&publication_year=2008&pages=994-997&pmid=18288194&doi=10.1038/nature06611&)]
-
Luo B, Cheung HW, Subramanian A, Sharifnia T, Okamoto M, Yang X, Hinkle G, Boehm JS, Beroukhim R, Weir BA, Mermel C, Barbie DA, Awad T, Zhou X, Nguyen T, Piqani B, Li C, Golub TR, Meyerson M, Hacohen N, et al. Highly parallel identification of essential genes in cancer cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2008;105:20380–20385. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0810485105. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0810485105)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2629277/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19091943/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA&title=Highly%20parallel%20identification%20of%20essential%20genes%20in%20cancer%20cells&author=B%20Luo&author=HW%20Cheung&author=A%20Subramanian&author=T%20Sharifnia&author=M%20Okamoto&volume=105&publication_year=2008&pages=20380-20385&pmid=19091943&doi=10.1073/pnas.0810485105&)]
-
Luo T, Masson K, Jaffe JD, Silkworth W, Ross NT, Scherer CA, Scholl C, Frohling S, Carr SA, Stern AM, Schreiber SL, Golub TR. STK33 kinase inhibitor BRD-8899 has no effect on KRAS-dependent cancer cell
viability. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2012;109:2860–2865. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1120589109. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1120589109)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3286931/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22323609/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA&title=STK33%20kinase%20inhibitor%20BRD-8899%20has%20no%20effect%20on%20KRAS-dependent%20cancer%20cell%20viability&author=T%20Luo&author=K%20Masson&author=JD%20Jaffe&author=W%20Silkworth&author=NT%20Ross&volume=109&publication_year=2012&pages=2860-2865&pmid=22323609&doi=10.1073/pnas.1120589109&)]
-
Makino T, Hokamp K, McLysaght A. The complex relationship of gene duplication and essentiality. Trends Genet. 2009;25:152–155. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2009.03.001. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tig.2009.03.001)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19285746/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Trends%20Genet&title=The%20complex%20relationship%20of%20gene%20duplication%20and%20essentiality&author=T%20Makino&author=K%20Hokamp&author=A%20McLysaght&volume=25&publication_year=2009&pages=152-155&pmid=19285746&doi=10.1016/j.tig.2009.03.001&)]
-
Mali P, Yang L, Esvelt KM, Aach J, Guell M, DiCarlo JE, Norville JE, Church GM. RNA-guided human genome engineering via Cas9. Science. 2013;339:823–826. doi: 10.1126/science.1232033. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1232033)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3712628/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23287722/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=RNA-guided%20human%20genome%20engineering%20via%20Cas9&author=P%20Mali&author=L%20Yang&author=KM%20Esvelt&author=J%20Aach&author=M%20Guell&volume=339&publication_year=2013&pages=823-826&pmid=23287722&doi=10.1126/science.1232033&)]
-
Marcotte R, Brown KR, Suarez F, Sayad A, Karamboulas K, Krzyzanowski PM, Sircoulomb F, Medrano M, Fedyshyn Y, Koh JL, van Dyk D, Fedyshyn B, Luhova M, Brito GC, Vizeacoumar FJ, Vizeacoumar FS, Datti A, Kasimer D, Buzina A, Mero P, et al. Essential gene profiles in breast, pancreatic, and ovarian cancer
cells. Cancer Discov. 2012;2:172–189. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-11-0224. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1158/2159-8290.CD-11-0224)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC5057396/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22585861/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cancer%20Discov&title=Essential%20gene%20profiles%20in%20breast,%20pancreatic,%20and%20ovarian%20cancer%20cells&author=R%20Marcotte&author=KR%20Brown&author=F%20Suarez&author=A%20Sayad&author=K%20Karamboulas&volume=2&publication_year=2012&pages=172-189&pmid=22585861&doi=10.1158/2159-8290.CD-11-0224&)]
-
Moffat J, Reiling JH, Sabatini DM. Off-target effects associated with long dsRNAs in Drosophila RNAi
screens. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2007;28:149–151. doi: 10.1016/j.tips.2007.02.009. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tips.2007.02.009)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17350110/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Trends%20Pharmacol%20Sci&title=Off-target%20effects%20associated%20with%20long%20dsRNAs%20in%20Drosophila%20RNAi%20screens&author=J%20Moffat&author=JH%20Reiling&author=DM%20Sabatini&volume=28&publication_year=2007&pages=149-151&pmid=17350110&doi=10.1016/j.tips.2007.02.009&)]
-
Nijhawan D, Zack TI, Ren Y, Strickland MR, Lamothe R, Schumacher SE, Tsherniak A, Besche HC, Rosenbluh J, Shehata S, Cowley GS, Weir BA, Goldberg AL, Mesirov JP, Root DE, Bhatia SN, Beroukhim R, Hahn WC. Cancer vulnerabilities unveiled by genomic loss. Cell. 2012;150:842–854. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2012.07.023. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2012.07.023)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3429351/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22901813/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cell&title=Cancer%20vulnerabilities%20unveiled%20by%20genomic%20loss&author=D%20Nijhawan&author=TI%20Zack&author=Y%20Ren&author=MR%20Strickland&author=R%20Lamothe&volume=150&publication_year=2012&pages=842-854&pmid=22901813&doi=10.1016/j.cell.2012.07.023&)]
-
Paigen K. One hundred years of mouse genetics: an intellectual history. I. The classical period
(1902–1980) Genetics. 2003;163:1–7. doi: 10.1093/genetics/163.1.1. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1093/genetics/163.1.1)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC1462407/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12586691/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genetics&title=One%20hundred%20years%20of%20mouse%20genetics:%20an%20intellectual%20history.%20I.%20The%20classical%20period%20(1902%E2%80%931980)&author=K%20Paigen&volume=163&publication_year=2003&pages=1-7&pmid=12586691&doi=10.1093/genetics/163.1.1&)]
-
Popova T, Manie E, Stoppa-Lyonnet D, Rigaill G, Barillot E, Stern MH. Genome Alteration Print (GAP): a tool to visualize and mine complex cancer genomic
profiles obtained by SNP arrays. Genome Biol. 2009;10:R128. doi: 10.1186/gb-2009-10-11-r128. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/gb-2009-10-11-r128)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2810663/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19903341/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genome%20Biol&title=Genome%20Alteration%20Print%20(GAP):%20a%20tool%20to%20visualize%20and%20mine%20complex%20cancer%20genomic%20profiles%20obtained%20by%20SNP%20arrays&author=T%20Popova&author=E%20Manie&author=D%20Stoppa-Lyonnet&author=G%20Rigaill&author=E%20Barillot&volume=10&publication_year=2009&pages=R128&pmid=19903341&doi=10.1186/gb-2009-10-11-r128&)]
-
Schlabach MR, Luo J, Solimini NL, Hu G, Xu Q, Li MZ, Zhao Z, Smogorzewska A, Sowa ME, Ang XL, Westbrook TF, Liang AC, Chang K, Hackett JA, Harper JW, Hannon GJ, Elledge SJ. Cancer proliferation gene discovery through functional genomics. Science. 2008;319:620–624. doi: 10.1126/science.1149200. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1149200)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2981870/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18239126/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Cancer%20proliferation%20gene%20discovery%20through%20functional%20genomics&author=MR%20Schlabach&author=J%20Luo&author=NL%20Solimini&author=G%20Hu&author=Q%20Xu&volume=319&publication_year=2008&pages=620-624&pmid=18239126&doi=10.1126/science.1149200&)]
-
Scholl C, Frohling S, Dunn IF, Schinzel AC, Barbie DA, Kim SY, Silver SJ, Tamayo P, Wadlow RC, Ramaswamy S, Dohner K, Bullinger L, Sandy P, Boehm JS, Root DE, Jacks T, Hahn WC, Gilliland DG. Synthetic lethal interaction between oncogenic KRAS dependency and STK33 suppression
in human cancer cells. Cell. 2009;137:821–834. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2009.03.017. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2009.03.017)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19490892/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cell&title=Synthetic%20lethal%20interaction%20between%20oncogenic%20KRAS%20dependency%20and%20STK33%20suppression%20in%20human%20cancer%20cells&author=C%20Scholl&author=S%20Frohling&author=IF%20Dunn&author=AC%20Schinzel&author=DA%20Barbie&volume=137&publication_year=2009&pages=821-834&pmid=19490892&doi=10.1016/j.cell.2009.03.017&)]
-
Shalem O, Sanjana NE, Hartenian E, Shi X, Scott DA, Mikkelson T, Heckl D, Ebert BL, Root DE, Doench JG, Zhang F. Genome-Scale CRISPR-Cas9 Knockout Screening in Human Cells. Science. 2013;343:84–87. doi: 10.1126/science.1247005. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1247005)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC4089965/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24336571/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Genome-Scale%20CRISPR-Cas9%20Knockout%20Screening%20in%20Human%20Cells&author=O%20Shalem&author=NE%20Sanjana&author=E%20Hartenian&author=X%20Shi&author=DA%20Scott&volume=343&publication_year=2013&pages=84-87&pmid=24336571&doi=10.1126/science.1247005&)]
-
Shao DD, Tsherniak A, Gopal S, Weir BA, Tamayo P, Stransky N, Schumacher SE, Zack TI, Beroukhim R, Garraway LA, Margolin AA, Root DE, Hahn WC, Mesirov JP. ATARiS: computational quantification of gene suppression phenotypes from multi-sample
RNAi screens. Genome Res. 2012;23:665–678. doi: 10.1101/gr.143586.112. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.143586.112)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3613583/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23269662/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genome%20Res&title=ATARiS:%20computational%20quantification%20of%20gene%20suppression%20phenotypes%20from%20multi-sample%20RNAi%20screens&author=DD%20Shao&author=A%20Tsherniak&author=S%20Gopal&author=BA%20Weir&author=P%20Tamayo&volume=23&publication_year=2012&pages=665-678&pmid=23269662&doi=10.1101/gr.143586.112&)]
-
Shao DD, Tsherniak A, Gopal S, Weir BA, Tamayo P, Stransky N, Schumacher SE, Zack TI, Beroukhim R, Garraway LA, Margolin AA, Root DE, Hahn WC, Mesirov JP. ATARiS: computational quantification of gene suppression phenotypes from multisample
RNAi screens. Genome Res. 2013;23:665–678. doi: 10.1101/gr.143586.112. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.143586.112)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3613583/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23269662/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genome%20Res&title=ATARiS:%20computational%20quantification%20of%20gene%20suppression%20phenotypes%20from%20multisample%20RNAi%20screens&author=DD%20Shao&author=A%20Tsherniak&author=S%20Gopal&author=BA%20Weir&author=P%20Tamayo&volume=23&publication_year=2013&pages=665-678&pmid=23269662&doi=10.1101/gr.143586.112&)]
-
Silva JM, Marran K, Parker JS, Silva J, Golding M, Schlabach MR, Elledge SJ, Hannon GJ, Chang K. Profiling essential genes in human mammary cells by multiplex RNAi
screening. Science. 2008;319:617–620. doi: 10.1126/science.1149185. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1149185)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2981861/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18239125/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Profiling%20essential%20genes%20in%20human%20mammary%20cells%20by%20multiplex%20RNAi%20screening&author=JM%20Silva&author=K%20Marran&author=JS%20Parker&author=J%20Silva&author=M%20Golding&volume=319&publication_year=2008&pages=617-620&pmid=18239125&doi=10.1126/science.1149185&)]
-
Solimini NL, Liang AC, Xu C, Pavlova NN, Xu Q, Davoli T, Li MZ, Wong KK, Elledge SJ. STOP gene Phactr4 is a tumor suppressor. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2013;110:E407–E414. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1221385110. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1221385110)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3562831/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23319639/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA&title=STOP%20gene%20Phactr4%20is%20a%20tumor%20suppressor&author=NL%20Solimini&author=AC%20Liang&author=C%20Xu&author=NN%20Pavlova&author=Q%20Xu&volume=110&publication_year=2013&pages=E407-E414&pmid=23319639&doi=10.1073/pnas.1221385110&)]
-
Tennessen JA, Bigham AW, O'Connor TD, Fu W, Kenny EE, Gravel S, McGee S, Do R, Liu X, Jun G, Kang HM, Jordan D, Leal SM, Gabriel S, Rieder MJ, Abecasis G, Altshuler D, Nickerson DA, Boerwinkle E, Sunyaev S, et al. Evolution and functional impact of rare coding variation from deep sequencing of
human exomes. Science. 2012;337:64–69. doi: 10.1126/science.1219240. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1219240)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3708544/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22604720/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Evolution%20and%20functional%20impact%20of%20rare%20coding%20variation%20from%20deep%20sequencing%20of%20human%20exomes&author=JA%20Tennessen&author=AW%20Bigham&author=TD%20O'Connor&author=W%20Fu&author=EE%20Kenny&volume=337&publication_year=2012&pages=64-69&pmid=22604720&doi=10.1126/science.1219240&)]
-
Tilgner H, Knowles DG, Johnson R, Davis CA, Chakrabortty S, Djebali S, Curado J, Snyder M, Gingeras TR, Guigo R. Deep sequencing of subcellular RNA fractions shows splicing to be predominantly
co-transcriptional in the human genome but inefficient for lncRNAs. Genome Res. 2012;22:1616–1625. doi: 10.1101/gr.134445.111. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.134445.111)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3431479/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22955974/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Genome%20Res&title=Deep%20sequencing%20of%20subcellular%20RNA%20fractions%20shows%20splicing%20to%20be%20predominantly%20co-transcriptional%20in%20the%20human%20genome%20but%20inefficient%20for%20lncRNAs&author=H%20Tilgner&author=DG%20Knowles&author=R%20Johnson&author=CA%20Davis&author=S%20Chakrabortty&volume=22&publication_year=2012&pages=1616-1625&pmid=22955974&doi=10.1101/gr.134445.111&)]
-
Tu Z, Wang L, Xu M, Zhou X, Chen T, Sun F. Further understanding human disease genes by comparing with housekeeping genes and
other genes. BMC Genomics. 2006;7:31. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-7-31. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-7-31)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC1397819/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16504025/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Genomics&title=Further%20understanding%20human%20disease%20genes%20by%20comparing%20with%20housekeeping%20genes%20and%20other%20genes&author=Z%20Tu&author=L%20Wang&author=M%20Xu&author=X%20Zhou&author=T%20Chen&volume=7&publication_year=2006&pages=31&pmid=16504025&doi=10.1186/1471-2164-7-31&)]
-
Vizeacoumar FJ, Arnold R, Vizeacoumar FS, Chandrashekhar M, Buzina A, Young JT, Kwan JH, Sayad A, Mero P, Lawo S, Tanaka H, Brown KR, Baryshnikova A, Mak AB, Fedyshyn Y, Wang Y, Brito GC, Kasimer D, Makhnevych T, Ketela T, et al. A negative genetic interaction map in isogenic cancer cell lines reveals cancer cell
vulnerabilities. Mol Syst Biol. 2013;9:696. doi: 10.1038/msb.2013.54. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/msb.2013.54)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3817404/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24104479/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Mol%20Syst%20Biol&title=A%20negative%20genetic%20interaction%20map%20in%20isogenic%20cancer%20cell%20lines%20reveals%20cancer%20cell%20vulnerabilities&author=FJ%20Vizeacoumar&author=R%20Arnold&author=FS%20Vizeacoumar&author=M%20Chandrashekhar&author=A%20Buzina&volume=9&publication_year=2013&pages=696&pmid=24104479&doi=10.1038/msb.2013.54&)]
-
Wang T, Wei JJ, Sabatini DM, Lander ES. Genetic Screens in Human Cells Using the CRISPR/Cas9 System. Science. 2013;343:80–84. doi: 10.1126/science.1246981. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1246981)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3972032/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24336569/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Genetic%20Screens%20in%20Human%20Cells%20Using%20the%20CRISPR/Cas9%20System&author=T%20Wang&author=JJ%20Wei&author=DM%20Sabatini&author=ES%20Lander&volume=343&publication_year=2013&pages=80-84&pmid=24336569&doi=10.1126/science.1246981&)]
-
Weiwer M, Spoonamore J, Wei J, Guichard B, Ross NT, Masson K, Silkworth W, Dandapani S, Palmer M, Scherer CA, Stern AM, Schreiber SL, Munoz B. A Potent and Selective Quinoxalinone-Based STK33 Inhibitor Does Not Show Synthetic
Lethality in KRAS-Dependent Cells. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2012;3:1034–1038. doi: 10.1021/ml300246r. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/ml300246r)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3523537/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23256033/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=ACS%20Med%20Chem%20Lett&title=A%20Potent%20and%20Selective%20Quinoxalinone-Based%20STK33%20Inhibitor%20Does%20Not%20Show%20Synthetic%20Lethality%20in%20KRAS-Dependent%20Cells&author=M%20Weiwer&author=J%20Spoonamore&author=J%20Wei&author=B%20Guichard&author=NT%20Ross&volume=3&publication_year=2012&pages=1034-1038&pmid=23256033&doi=10.1021/ml300246r&)]
-
White JK, Gerdin AK, Karp NA, Ryder E, Buljan M, Bussell JN, Salisbury J, Clare S, Ingham NJ, Podrini C, Houghton R, Estabel J, Bottomley JR, Melvin DG, Sunter D, Adams NC Sanger Institute Mouse Genetics P. Tannahill D, Logan DW, Macarthur DG, et al. Genome-wide generation and systematic phenotyping of knockout mice reveals new roles
for many genes. Cell. 2013;154:452–464. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2013.06.022. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2013.06.022)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC3717207/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23870131/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cell&title=Genome-wide%20generation%20and%20systematic%20phenotyping%20of%20knockout%20mice%20reveals%20new%20roles%20for%20many%20genes&author=JK%20White&author=AK%20Gerdin&author=NA%20Karp&author=E%20Ryder&author=M%20Buljan&volume=154&publication_year=2013&pages=452-464&pmid=23870131&doi=10.1016/j.cell.2013.06.022&)]
-
Winzeler EA, Shoemaker DD, Astromoff A, Liang H, Anderson K, Andre B, Bangham R, Benito R, Boeke JD, Bussey H, Chu AM, Connelly C, Davis K, Dietrich F, Dow SW, El Bakkoury M, Foury F, Friend SH, Gentalen E, Giaever G, et al. Functional characterization of the S. cerevisiae genome by gene
deletion and parallel analysis. Science. 1999;285:901–906. doi: 10.1126/science.285.5429.901. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.285.5429.901)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10436161/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Science&title=Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20S.%20cerevisiae%20genome%20by%20gene%20deletion%20and%20parallel%20analysis&author=EA%20Winzeler&author=DD%20Shoemaker&author=A%20Astromoff&author=H%20Liang&author=K%20Anderson&volume=285&publication_year=1999&pages=901-906&pmid=10436161&doi=10.1126/science.285.5429.901&)]
-
Zotenko E, Mestre J, O'Leary DP, Przytycka TM. Why do hubs in the yeast protein interaction network tend to be essential:
reexamining the connection between the network topology and essentiality. PLoS Comput Biol. 2008;4:e1000140. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000140. [
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000140)] [ [PMC free article](/articles/PMC2467474/)] [ [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18670624/)] [ [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=PLoS%20Comput%20Biol&title=Why%20do%20hubs%20in%20the%20yeast%20protein%20interaction%20network%20tend%20to%20be%20essential:%20reexamining%20the%20connection%20between%20the%20network%20topology%20and%20essentiality&author=E%20Zotenko&author=J%20Mestre&author=DP%20O'Leary&author=TM%20Przytycka&volume=4&publication_year=2008&pages=e1000140&pmid=18670624&doi=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000140&)]
Associated Data
This section collects any data citations, data availability statements, or supplementary materials included in this article.